# FUZZY-MULTI-OMICS-BIOLOGICAL-AGE-PREDICTION-AND-MORTALITY-RATE-WITH-DISEAESE-PREDICTION.
It is important to understand the complex process of aging, which involves multiple biological factors including genetic, epigenetic, transcriptomic, proteomic and environmental factors and is not limited to traditional chronological age. 
The noticeable need to accurately reflect the physiological condition of an individual and thereby creating reliable biological age assessment methods is effectively required. The proposed framework consists of a fuzzy multi-omics decision support system which is designed to integrate diverse biological data for aging evaluation through assessments. This proposed framework captures the multi-dimensional nature of aging from DNA methylation profiles, genomic, proteomic and transcriptomic data. To manage noise, uncertainty and imprecision present in multi-omics datasets as well as providing interpretable decision-making capabilities, fuzzy inference mechanisms are used. This framework uses feature selection and data fusion to find important aging biomarkers and estimate biological age more accurately. Fuzzy rules can explain the understanding of complex relationships between biological markers related to aging and age-related diseases. This model aims to assist techniques involved in personalized healthcare and early disease risk intervention and individualized healthcare. The framework offers a potential direction for the advancement of precision aging research and evolution of next-generation biological age clocks through incorporating multi-omics information within an explainable artificial intelligence paradigm. 

 INVOLVES PREPROCESSED DATA FROM 1999 TO 2018 (NHANES).
 COX METHOD IS USED TO ESTIMATE BIOLOGICAL AGE.
 MULTI-OMICS DATA IS INTEGRATED INTO THE MODEL FOR ACCURATE PREDICTION OF BIOLOGICAL AGE , MORTALITY RATE AND ALSO DISEASE PREDICTION.
 
